e
e e
good morning folks
OBS is
uh challenging me this morning
again okay if you are
a user on X or what was formally known
as Twitter and you follow me there if
you give me a 5x5 that'll tell me that
you guys can hear me fine
thank you so much thank you for that
appreciate
it doie let's get this
going so I purposely left
myself a void of reading any price
action on Sunday
I this is my first time with the
exception of just toggling to the weekly
chart so I've only looked at the charts
long enough to see the time frame change
I haven't looked at any kind of
levels
the the absence of holding a a previous
week's
bias if
uh if I could come into a live stream
like that I'm trying to accomplish the
same thing I believe that Caleb would
have so words it it's it's easy for me
to um spend about 20 30 minutes in the
evening time with the London session um
maybe 20 30 minutes in the Asian session
when it opened up last
night just getting the weekly opening
Gap and then turning the charts off and
just letting overnight
take whatever action it want to take and
then coming into the morning
pre-market pre-market is I like to trade
those days when there's a pal speech
when there's
fomc um I like to trade early in the day
because the the price action tends to be
a little bit more
cleaner and what I mean by cleaner it
it's a little bit more obvious in terms
of what it wants to reach for it's far
less likely to be like a seek and
destroy or a high resistance liquidity
profile because there's a lot of
Professionals in the market trying to
get in and take something early on and
let everyone else gamble after or during
or ahead of a pal
speech
typically uh the U the days that have
the FED share
speaking right before he starts or she
when there was a lady that used to be a
f chair whenever they would speak
leading up to that the market would tend
to be a little bit more fickle a little
bit more challenging and in my opinion
there were better left to the novice
Traders someone that just want to
believe they can gamble and get lucky
but on the days that your Fed
chair is speaking and it's in the
afternoon or if it's really early like
say it's like a 10:00 or even a 9:30 or
9:15 or 9:45 speech
anything okay prior to 9:00
in my opinion is
pre-market because the opening range
is 9:30 to 10:00 during that first 30
minutes trading if there's a Fed
chairman testimony where they're
talking any time within that 9:00 to
10:00 hour you want to be trading before
8:00 in the
morning so you want to have that in your
notes I'll talk more about those things
in the book but I just want to give you
a little bit bit of a like tip my hand
to you give you some
hints today if you look at the economic
calendar you'll notice that there is one
medium impact news event that's the
Chicago PMI number at 9:45 so that's 15
minutes after the opening bell so that's
fine that that'll help fuel some of the
first 30 minutes
trading my Council to my son is because
it's a 945 medium impact news driver he
has to sit still and wait until
10:00 so he'll let that news driver come
into the marketplace let Traders either
get cancelled out stopped out or get
kicked into an idea based on what they
see at the 9:45 news
event he's not trying to predict the
delivery of price he's letting that
first 15 minutes pass okay so that's
it's a minimum criteria for anything
that comes after a high impact or medium
impact news driver wait 15 minutes if
you're trying to trade right on the
release of that news and it's under 15
minutes your chances are you're probably
in a rush and you're in a hurry to do
something you probably aren't equipped
to trade with there's plenty of other
opportunities to get in as you'll see in
the rest of the mentorship before we
close it down this
year there's lots of ways to get into a
move
so the pre-market session is anything
before 9:00 in the
morning we have a Fed chairman testimony
today but it's in the afternoon so you
can trade all the way up until the
opening
bell 7 o'clock in the morning starts it
and at 7 o'clock in the morning Eastern
time so whatever the local time is in
New York always have your clock set to
that especially your trading view charts
because if you don't have them toggled
to New York
time if it's not toggled there
everything I'm teaching you're not going
to be able to follow correctly if you're
using your local time it would won't
work
so sitting down at the charts this is
what I do okay this is exactly what I do
on Sunday so I deferred everything that
I would normally do then I'm doing it
now now admittedly I'm doing it a little
bit late because I want to come into the
live stream knowing next to nothing in
terms of a bias um I don't have any kind
of preconceived ideas about what I want
to see in the charts I want to see what
the chart looks like as I sit down with
it so this is basically pant mind me the
closest thing I can I can't forget what
I already know right but for the sake of
presenting it for my
son and also to kind of illustrate that
you know it only takes a few minutes to
ascertain what it is that you want to
focus on and now we're going to go
through it
so this Gap up here we talked about this
throughout the 2024 mentorship we talked
about the volume imbalance here in the
September contract I told you that was
about as far as I could see for the year
for that contract it went just a little
bit above that and then went and we
rolled over if we looked at the U on the
daily chart right now I'm looking at the
weekly but the weekly has this inbalance
up here so we've had that trade
too and we have just a few more weeks to
get to the US
election and I want to give the market
the opportunity to explore lower prices
and what would that look like well we
already have what would be the start of
a potential I'm not saying it is this
could be a potential turning point so I
would like to see if we can make an
attempt to start breaking down I don't
want to I don't want to predict or or
time the the high in the marketplace but
I'm affording myself at least going in
because I'm I'm assuming that it's a
Sunday the weekends passed and now I'm
going to look at what I want to try to
see in price action formulate some kind
of a game
plan I like the idea of entertaining the
likelihood of trading down into this Gap
here this
week so that's this right
here so basically what I'm doing I'm
giving you a Soup To Nuts breakdown of
what I do on the weekend sometimes I'll
do it on a Friday and then I'll have
notes about what I expect to see based
on a higher opening on Sunday's Gap or a
lower opening Gap or a lack of a gap so
I I'll flesh out scenarios and I I'll
talk more about that in the book because
it's not important right now I'm giving
you actionable points that's this whole
week I'm giving you something to strip
it down remove all of the moving parts
and say okay I need something to provide
myself a way of determining a bias and
then I have to also learn how to frame a
narrative why the market should behave a
certain way and then what what model am
I going to use and what time of day am I
going to trade and how am I going to
enter the trade and how will I place my
stop loss how will I take a first
partial when will I move my stop loss
when will I be content and it trades to
my Terminus and then I stop trading for
that session or that day and then go
back in the next day that's the that's
what we're doing this week like this is
boot camp for getting out there and
using my concept correctly streamlined
it's not fluffed up with everything you
you possibly learn from my YouTube
channel it's literally going in and
saying this is how you make money this
is how you go in and you you look for
setups that form every single day you go
in looking for this same repeating
recipe sometimes it is going to give it
to you sometimes you'll think it's there
you'll execute on it and you'll lose
that's the reality of it you I don't
have a model that's 100% I'm not going
to teach you 100% no one else is going
to teach you 100%
either so just relax and accept the fact
that uncertainty is something you need
to embrace but you can start to strip
away some of that stuff by fleshing out
a model that has Sound Logic in and what
we're looking at is we're up here we
traded to a premium we I'll to the
weekly chart
last week and then now we're in this
week's present Candlestick the
inefficiency on the weekly
chart is this candle right
here this week's
high that week's low this individual
Candlestick only has buy side delivery
that means movement
higher and it would be reasonable to
anticipate the market wanting to
go and explore
that's
weird this
low okay
and for annotation purposes Caleb what
you want to do is when you're annotating
on a higher time frame chart anything
you put on your chart on a higher time
frame because you're going to be working
on a lower time frames for entries exits
management of a trade you want to
annotate that so this is September
23rd weekly low
so that way when you go into the lower
time frame charts when this line appears
over here on the right hand side towards
the price axis of the chart this is your
time axis at the bottom this will always
give you reference point as to what
you're looking at because if you start
laying down lines on your chart and you
don't annotate them you don't tell
yourself what they are they're they're
meaningless then they're distractions so
you want to be organized with your
annotations and then obviously if it
makes the effort to get down into this
inefficiency this one here September 9th
so the week of September 23rd and
September 9th respectively shown
here and this is the weekly high for
that
week short sweet and easy now you can go
as far as going into adding the
consequent corach of that and I'll do it
now just to show you
Caleb take the low of it and the
high and the
midpoint take the quadrant
off so 8 83 and A4
883 and a quarter 883 and a
quarter okay
and just anchor inside that candle there
you can label it
there it is
okay this Wick here you can annotate
that with consequent cach one as well
and this one but we're going to leave
that off today but you can do that for
your own charts and then the daily
chart so now we can start refining a
little bit more we had this little Gap
in here of volume IM balance here and
volume IM balance there whenever there's
consecutive volume imbalances it's just
one single candle like that just do the
entire range it makes it very easy
you'll you'll see the inefficiencies
just the same as you would if you've
just done them individually so with that
C to
this and since it's a premium array you
want to have some kind of a
hue or color that helps you not too much
like that's enough for me to notice it
you can do whatever you want to do on
your charts but I'm just giving you the
idea how I'm going to be able to refer
to it I don't keep this stuff on my
chart as you can see when I put it on
there it it's it's very distracting and
disorients me sometimes I know what I'm
looking at just by the
Candlestick and it's actually harder for
me to teach it and describe it real time
than it is to just simply do it so and
you'll you'll know what that means when
you start getting better at it but we
have that volume and balance here that
is two consecutive volume balances but
only separated by one Candlestick
usually you only see something like like
this candle body to that candle stick
body and that's a volume imbalance but
there's one immediately to the to the
left of that too so just Encompass the
entire range there it's fine because
this is actually indis of candle it is
basically all but not it's not that
important the more important factor is
this in this okay so um just dis
disregard this one trust me in that okay
you'll see what it means when we start
looking at lower
prices all right so now you should
already notice that there is two lows
down here that are real close to one
another right so when we drop down to
I'm going to skip entirely over 4 Hour
chart because it's not necessary if I
was swing
trading or if I was trading for like the
entirety of the weekly range I would
drop down to the 4 Hour and do this same
type of thing looking for specific PD
arays things that would be impactful for
me but because I'm not trying to swing
trade I'm not trying to do anything
except for session trade or at the very
Mo very most very most that's not that's
not appropriate at the very least I'm
trying to do just a session trade or
scalp but up to the Daily range and that
can be afforded to you by simply looking
at the hourly chart so we're going to to
60 Minute chart
now okay and you see this big wick right
here this is a level I'm literally
teaching you right now this is what I
write on my notepad you guys keep asking
keep asking keep asking um I go through
the charts and I write down all the
things that I'm doing right here any
Wicks that are at lows or highs or in
close proximity to the market
price I annotate those uh consequent
encroachment levels and if it's
something that's a
discount like this would be here
relative to where we're at here this is
where the market price is right now
20,525 let me add the uh
there you go it bothers me when I don't
see that thing there the
uh this Wick is lower than current
market price so that means that this is
a discount Wick whereas something like
like this Wick would be a premium Wick
because it's above current market price
okay um if you're not looking at price
in relative terms to premium to Discount
you're absolutely doing it wrong okay
you're absolutely I don't care what
young man this makes a YouTube video and
says um you don't need this you don't
need that every every single high
probability short is always entered
whether you use my stuff or not if it's
worked it's because it was in a premium
and it's moved to a discount every
single 100% strike rate every single
time a long trade that was profitable in
your hands or anyone else's hands was
because it left a discount and traded to
a premium absolutely 100% it never
misses it's just like a partial profit
it never misses it never loses it's 100%
strike rate so for anyone that's telling
you don't worry about looking at uh
premium to Discount they're a [__]
clown and stop watching them because
they literally are trying to reinvent
something and they're taking your away
taking your eyesight away from the
things that matter most if you can't
frame the basis of your short that it's
inside of a premium you're you're
hopeless if you can't frame your long on
the basis of a discount you're hopeless
you're literally asking to lose money
you're literally you might as well just
go outside find the first person you see
and just give them your money it's more
charitable than you just going out there
and giving it to people that know better
and you don't okay so I mean that
entirely so this is another level
here I'm writing I'm writing them down
as we go so the to this level
here okay so that's consequent
encroachment there and this will be
annotated as an
hourly I abbreviate I just put like a
60m
c and it's because it's low or I put a
little tiny D next to it so it tells me
it's discount so it's 60
Minute
discount Wick c e that's your definition
so that way you understand what it is
but I just told you how I write on my my
notepad and there it is so
double up didn't how that
happen ocp's flaring
okay
now I go through the daily chart I like
the idea that we cleared this High here
I like the idea that we went into this
inefficiency here this is sell side and
balance buy side efficiency I love the
fact that we traded back up to change in
the state of delivery which is my order
block the and it's the opening price of
the up close candle right here so that
is a really nice delivery
there and I don't know why my every time
I'm drawing these trend lines it's
shooting to the left and I have no idea
why it's doing
that yeah I don't know what's going on
there it's weird let me know in uh in
Twitter if trading view is acting wonky
for you but I don't want to do AR Ray
because this is going to drive me nuts
it's not important but that opening
price there in this high that being
together is uh that's
nice what I want to see admittedly
already is I want to see price try to go
lower this morning okay so my bias is
bearish I want to see something that I
can frame as a narrative now to go lower
so what would that be well we already
noticed on daily chart there were some
relative equal lows that I spotted but
can we see them on the lower time frames
where it makes sense so we can drop down
from the hourly chart now to a 15-minute
time frame now obviously it's taking me
more time talking and teaching you why
I'm doing what I'm doing then actually
just doing it so it literally takes a
few minutes just go through the time
frames break them down look for the
levels and there it is it's the obvious
things that you're looking for if it's
not obvious you're probably straining to
make it work okay if it doesn't jump off
of the chart at you chances are you're
probably making more of it than it
really is and I I mean that you'll see
in your own experience that the more you
try to push and push and push like a
fine tooth comb go through everything
you don't need to do that especially on
these higher time frame charts like 1
hour for me is it's it's a high time
frame like there's a lot of stuff going
on every one of these individual
candlesticks on the 15sec chart and
every one of these individual one hour
charts is like a daily range for me I
can trade a a 15 and 5 Second chart and
run circles around most everything else
out there and just trade inside one of
these 1 hour candles and how many
candles do you have in a daily
session so you can see how fast velocity
kicks in so while it's not important for
you to be able to do that yet C but you
will if you stick with it and you want
to do that Dad will absolutely love
teaching that to you but you have to
start like here first so we'll drop down
to an hourly chart to a 15-minute time
frame and here's the business from
here's
Friday and then Sunday so the only thing
I did last night at six o'clock was
annotate the uh weekly opening Gap and
then I turn the charts off so this is
the first time I'm I've seen a 15-minute
time
frame
and looking at the
uh the lows here notice how that low has
that lower low to the right of it and
then this low has that low lower than
the one here and this low has the lower
low here to the right of it and now this
low has been breached by this so we
don't see any kind of relative equal
lows here we see what the market keep
probing lower keep probing lower keep
probing lower remember what we have
later in the afternoon that Fed chair
pal speaking we have a little bit of
likely volatility coming in and then
what we'll have is what some kind of a
Judas swing right between 9:45 and 10
o'clock in the morning I am anticipating
in my mind I'm thinking okay without
that
945 news driver the Chicago PMI news
report that's that that's what I'm
referring to so if you look at your
economic calendar you can see that on
forexfactory.com that's one I used a lot
when I was teaching predominantly just
the Forex market and everything I'm
doing here is what you do in Forex too
folks I know you guys are barking saying
please do Forex please do Forex it's the
same thing everything I'm doing here is
the same thing you're going to do in
your Forex Pairs and with the dollar
Index the only thing is with Forex you
got to go one step further and do it on
the dollar Index too so everything
should be mirrored anything you see in
the dollar Index you should see the
opposite in your pound dollar or your
euro dollar or your dollar Yen or
whatever whatever pair you're
trading you have to at least refer to
the dollar Index to get a a full
panoramic view if you're trading Forex
in Futures we don't have to worry about
that notice I haven't even BR in uh I I
very rarely even refer to the SM uh smt
studies I think I probably pulled up
maybe two or three times the entirety of
this mentorship in 2024 because I need
myself to look at the very minimum
things initially if I throw everything
at him like you all try to do by by
watching my YouTube
videos you inundate yourself and it
causes analysis paralysis and then you
get the guys that are not really trying
to learn they want something to sample
real quick and go make courses
mentorships and write books so they
don't know what to pick correctly so
they just say screw it it's too much
it's complication it's over complicated
it's not over complicated as I'm
teaching you this week it's literally
the simplest thing you could ever have
in terms of trading with real
information that helps you see the
market before it happens
but all I'm doing is just using one
chart
one market the NASDAQ keeping your focus
on one instrument you have to start this
way if you haven't noticed charter
members this is exactly what I told all
of you to do in
2016 and every time we had brought in a
new group I would start off the same way
you have to start with one instrument
one instrument do not have a list of
things just one and if it's Forex that
you're trading you have to have a
correlated Market or I'm sorry in in
Forex you have to have a inverse
correlated market like the
dollar so when you're trading Futures
it's so much easier because you just
simply need one instrument I don't need
smt to trade profitably I don't need
that you don't need it it's just one of
those things that help me decide if I
want to take the largest leverage on the
trade or not
in the beginning it helped me qualify a
trade like if I see because shorting was
scary to me so I wanted to have
something behind that idea that okay
it's overbought it's it's it's showing a
a bearish Divergence in the stast that's
what I was doing back then in the 90s I
started with indicators too but I I
didn't trust it entirely and the reason
why I didn't trust it because I would
lose a lot so I knew I had to go through
that process of getting to the point
where I could make money and be
successful doing it even if it's far and
few between I had to keep doing what I
was doing to find that initial success
and I wanted a little bit more
confidence by having something behind
the scenes giving me a little bit more
courage because I was lacking a lot of
that in the
90s I know it's hard to believe but uh
by looking at currency
Futures I was using the deut mark
comparing their highs against the
British pound against the highs of the
Japanese Yen against the highs
of any other currency Canadian dollar
Australian dollar and I would go through
and I would find the one that was
failing to make a higher high and the
one that was making a a higher high I
wouldn't short those because they were
telling me they wanted to go higher
anyway so they're probably not going to
drop as much so I used the idea that I
got from Larry Williams and this is I've
already asked by the way I just want to
interject this I've asked for years for
people come out here and say that my
Concepts have been re from somewhere
else and they they they'll say Larry
Williams I have been open about what I
have adopted from Larry Williams and
I've given them credit every single time
there has been something I've learned
from him I told all of you to buy
everything he has I mean he's a legend
in in the industry like he is a real
legend okay I'm not a legend I'm not
some Superstar
I'm just an average guy and I've been
blessed but I am going to do the very
thing that everybody's been barking
about pointing to this and pointing to
that I'm going to go through every bunch
of [__] that people say I rebranded
I'm going to go into the books I'm going
to go into the page numbers I'm going to
do a documentary on my own stuff and
show you that my stuff is not in wof it
is not in supplying demand it is not in
any of this other stuff I'm going to
take you into the books okay we're going
to prove this [__] once and for all I
have no problem doing it over the
holidays January 1st New Year's Eve
there will be a documentary where I'm
showing you that everything you've heard
from all these people is absolute utter
[__] okay but you also get to see me
credit the people that were influences
to me but you'll see that there's
absolutely no footprint at all all in
what I'm doing today I was influenced by
certain individuals but they themselves
have no hand in what it is I'm doing
like for instance L Linda
rash I couldn't understand stop rids
like I I just didn't understand that and
that book Street smarts was such a
simple little approach to teaching it I
was like oh wow I understand that that's
what's been happening to
me then I was like okay well if she's
teaching that you can
go against that idea I never thought
about cannibalizing another Trader I was
just trying to think hope I'm right like
a lottery ticket like I hope I'm right
not thinking about the other personal
other side of my trade that that was the
Epiphany from that book that's what I
took away from it not that I trade 21
day highs or 20-day highs or lows you
don't see me mentioning any of that I'm
looking at how many how many
candlesticks is this candlestick's high
from this one it's not 20 that's not 20
candles but that's what that book
teaches find the highest high in the
last 20 days or or whatever time frame
you're using but they teach day and or
the the lowest low in the last 20 days
and if it goes below that Turtle sup
would buy the break below the old low or
Turtle suit would sell short above the
old high in the last 20 days the highest
high if it goes above that that pattern
that's taught in that book is a fading
of that move because the turtles Richard
Dennis taught these individuals off the
street how to use a breakout system it
was a long long-term Trend following
model and it had a very very low success
rate but the times it was correct it
would capture these huge long-term
trends and it would pay off all the you
numerous losses that it would occur well
I don't want to trade with something
like that so her idea and Larry Connor's
idea was by presenting that that pattern
by capitalizing on the low strike rate
and success of their model and they
called themselves the
turtles and and I love the name it's fun
it's a little pun against it they're
they're souped they're they're they end
up in the soup turtle soup so it's a
false breakout pattern that capitalized
on the low strike rate of Richard
Dennis's approach to teaching people
long-term Trend following models and the
turtles were able to make hundreds of
millions of dollars they were they were
managing hundreds of millions of dollars
so you don't need to be successful in
terms of a high strike rate but to me as
a man I wasn't impressed by that so it
taught me
it taught me how to look at stop hunts
and how I can engage that on smaller
time frames and be a short-term surgical
Striker go in day trade just like that
and that's that was the beginning
Foundation of my intraday model of
looking for stops now that is not in
Street smarts but the idea of getting
stopped out and being on the wrong side
of the marketplace that's how I
understood it because I couldn't
understand about anything what Larry
Williams was teaching I'm sure going
back through it I can point to yeah
there's where he did it but I understand
it then remember I was 20 years old I
was in a rush to get out of job I was
doing all those same things you're going
through and you hear me say certain
things in videos because you're rushing
through you've been working you're
you're on the weekend trying to cram as
many videos you can because you want to
pass a funded account Challenge and get
paid out you go back and watch the same
video from me and you're like damn it he
must have made an update where he edited
this video because I didn't hear it the
first time and you can watch the same
video and hear something new because
there's a lot of information being
presented well I had lots of books and I
would go through them quicker than I
should have because it was like a kid in
a candy store and all of this means
something folks for the P who are like
come on get on with it I'm getting on
with it the point is when I'm teaching
you're going to gravitate to certain
things and have more emphasis placed on
them and you're not going to have the
emphasis placed on the things that you
should have and you won't determine that
or figure that out until afterwards
you're going to go back because you have
more experience and you go through the
information again say oh wow I can can
see how that fits
now
and that's what mentoring is you don't
learn it one time in a 5 minute video
there's no way for me to condense this I
promise you you have to go through it
modularly step by step and expose
yourself to it every single trading day
and in on the weekends at least one day
of the weekend spend an hour 90 minutes
to it and just
study and you got to keep a balanced
life but anyway we're in now outside the
15-minute time frame but the uh
when we get into a 15-minute time frame
this is when if I am going to start
looking at smt if I'm ever going to
consider doing it if I'm going to look
at that because the 15minute time frame
for Caleb and for the 15minute time
frame for myself it's a bell weather
time frame meaning that I'm going to
lean on a lot of information that this
time frame gives me because I can see
60-minute highs on a 15minute chart I
can see a 4our high
or a 4 Hour low on a 15minute time frame
I don't need those 60-minute charts I
don't need those four hour charts I
don't need a two-hour chart I don't need
a three- hour chart I don't need a daily
chart I don't need a weekly chart I can
open up just look at a 15-minute time
frame and I have everything I need to be
a day trader everything because as I'm
going to teach you this week I'm going
to teach you a little exercise how you
can practice every single day and I call
it volatility pinball where you're going
to be buying and selling up and down up
and down all day long and that's how I
used I just recently did the exercise
with my pride private
mentorship where I'm buying and selling
in the same day in the same session and
I'm trying to communicate how you
desensitize yourself because many of you
were probably like I was I was scared to
get into a trade I was scared I was
afraid that I was going to have another
losing trade I was afraid that I wasn't
going to get the right entry point I was
afraid if I put my stop loss in it'd be
it would be hit no matter where it was
because I had losing trades in my mind I
imagined that if I got short like say
for instance say hypothetically say I
got short now
and if I wanted to believe that the stop
loss placed Above This high would be my
initial idea I would think no I got to
go higher than that so where would I go
all right I'll put it over
here but as soon as I put the trade on
I'm expecting some wild Wick to come all
the way up here you ever had that
experience send me a tweet and and and
you can put emojis on them if you want
but tell me if that's ever happened to
you when you when you've had a losing
trade or a series of losing trades it's
I don't know what happened in my mind as
a 20-year-old I expected some kind of
just wild immediate run up right to my
stop it's it it almost like conditions
you'd expect no matter where you put
your stop loss it's going to reach for
you and get you that's what I was that's
that's exactly what I was suffering from
when I was trying to teach myself how to
S sell short I could buy and I never had
that problem like I wasn't afraid that
that wild weird Wick would drop down
real quick and get my stop I never had
that experience but when I was trying to
teach myself how to trust being short or
be a short seller because I've never
done it
before every single time I put a short
on I was afraid that it was going to
create this really big open high low
closed bar because that's what I was
using back then not candlesticks my eyes
were better back then too but I was
expecting some wild weird freaky candle
or the equivalent today of a candle to
come up and and stop me out and that's
an unrealistic fear
it took me years to to conquer that fear
I had anxiety every single time I put I
put a short on because I was expecting
some what if scenario what if it did
this what if it did that and many times
it didn't do it at all a few times it
stopped me out but it never created that
monster candle that came out of nowhere
like an ogre you know
but anyway let's get on with
this I would use smt on a UT time frame
because it's my bell weather chart so in
other words because this is my go-to
time frame this is my get up and go like
my Gone in 60 Seconds type time frame I
can I can I can make everything i' ever
need in terms of narrative bias draw on
liquidity reversals continuations
inefficiencies stops that I'm going to
aim for you know everything I can pull
right from this time frame you may
require a little little bit more
additional information by having a view
of a 4-Hour chart or a three-hour chart
a two-hour chart a one hour chart you
may you may need to refer to that that
is absolutely 100% fine that doesn't
mean you're less of a traitor than
anyone else it doesn't mean you're doing
what you're doing here incorrectly just
means you're getting more information
there's nothing wrong with more
information you just got to make sure
that you're not inundating yourself with
too much information that causes you
conflicting analysis so that's why I
strip it down to just give myself the
daily and from the daily I'll drop down
to a 15 minut time frame I'm going to
skip over 4 Hour through to the
60-minute and go right to the nuts and
bolts of 15minute time frame so if I'm
going to look at uh smt I would do it
here so just notice the lay of the land
here we have a slightly lower high here
higher high here consecutive little
higher highs in here and then I would
refer
to
es you can see the high is higher here
now when on the NASDAQ we didn't have
that says smt
so NASDAQ at that time since then it's
been weaker just remember these these
reference points here this high is lower
than this one and now look at this see
this High here this one's lower on ES
than it is for what NASDAQ so S&P has
A&T Divergence this High doesn't make
the same high that we see in nasda and
watch watch I'll T go
back
see so that's why you're getting that
x-ray view behind the scen
but you would already know being short
in this inefficiency is appropriate
because you have this lower high than
this one relative to what we just saw on
ES so on my notepad I just simply note
the
time that at 8:00 pm
Sunday which is during Asia last night
that there was an S&T Divergence
15-minute time frame at 8 o'clock
between NASDAQ and Es and NASDAQ is the
weaker
so I just put an NQ and a negative next
to it that's what I'm saying like my
notepad isn't going to help you do
anything except for just I'm referencing
what I'm teaching you I'm not drawing it
on my charts but I have the information
on my notepad that's all I'm doing folks
I'm not hiding it from you I know if I
show this one time everybody's going to
say hey could you just show us your
notepad today can you just show us your
note I'm not getting into that okay this
is something I've been doing for a long
long time it's it just helps me
reference things and when out and about
or when I was watching uh
CNBC I can see that ticker tape at the
bottom and every 10 minutes the Futures
Market would come by and the Forex
Market would come by and it would tell
me where I'm at and because I know where
we were the highest high and the lowest
low in the last hour just by using the
ticker you can trade like that having
this information you're not going to get
Precision entries you don't need that if
you're trading for the day daily
range but when you combine what I'm
teaching you and you study how you can
watch the tape really watch the tape I'm
not talking about level two data these
people that these Jokers that talk that
stuff oh let me see your level two data
that is Mickey Mouse level crap like
it's literally garbage you're you're
you're
champing something that is literally
being used against you and you're
calling yourself informed money because
you're looking at it like that that's
the epitome of [__] like you're
you're literally don't you have no idea
what you're talking about but it seems
like you're informed doesn't it it looks
cool and complicated when you have that
volume bars we've always had the volume
at the bottom of the
chart and now volume profile they want
to make you feel like you got something
new they take that and they turn it
horizontally to now
vertically oh look at that that's no
different than if you just would have
laid it down on the
bottom you're looking at something
that's already happened you since you've
already seen it happen okay wonderful
you recorded something that already
happened what was the weather yesterday
right does that mean you got to wear uh
gashes today and rain boots no it just
means that you knew what the WEA was
yesterday well when you see the volume
wonderful you you you counted how many
transactions took place there wonderful
I don't care about that that shit's in
my rearview mirror I'm already looking
down the road 15 to 20 minutes down the
road I'm I'm way down there looking for
hazards and opportunities you're all
looking at stuff in the rear of your
mirror and you're wondering why you're
sitting there all day long waiting for
setups oh I'm waiting for something to
appear I'm waiting for this I'm waiting
for that uhuh I'm anticipating I know
where my stuff's going to be at and you
don't need the smt Divergence here to
tell you to get into a trade because you
can see that that inefficiency there is
what you'd be
entering you don't need to have any kind
of S&T diversions to tell you that
trade's good because it's already there
what makes it
good sell side buy side both taken when
we had a Divergence back here showing
you that the NASDAQ was weak so we
already have a built-in what we have a
we have a buil-in
heaviness on NASDAQ it's heavy and this
just so happened to be a little bit more
aggressive just to get in here to offer
a nice premium what makes this a
premium why is this Wick right here why
is it a premium because if you look at
the
range from this candle's High down to
this candle's low right there I'm going
to change the color you can see it
and we draw it out here is that Wick
above the middle Center Line see these
little outline squares here that black
line right there that Wick right here
that Wick right there that Wick right
there either of them could be short
entries because you're in a
premium because you're inside this
inefficiency between this candle one
candle two candle three the
inefficiencies is always candle number
two your
stop if it could be afforded to
you is always above Candlestick number
two but if there's small ranges like
you're seeing here you can use the
Candlestick number
threes body if it has a wick you can use
consequent encouragement of that
Wick don't look at that range from where
you'd be entering and think okay this is
too big of a stop I don't want to do
that you should always air on the side
of what's my smallest risk because
you're learning Caleb you're learning
it's not about impressing that with how
much you're making you're going to
impress me by doing the very least and
being consistent with it because if you
get that under your
belt that is the underlying cookie
cutter that all you have to do is
replicate that with more of the same
multiplying the same effort of something
that's done well is easy to do when you
learn how to do it well and consistently
but you have to do it with the smallest
degree of risk you have to do it the
smallest degree of Leverage and if you
don't you're going to hear my puppies in
the background snoring and I can't do
anything about that because if I if I go
outside this room they're GNA be barking
and hollering and I don't want that so
just know you're probably going to hear
that it would get on my nervy if I heard
it in live stream too so that's a
premium but it's also S&T Divergence
okay and in case you missed it I'm going
to draw it no I won't I won't draw it
I'm just going to keep the way it was I
did enough talking about it so we have
the
opening of Sunday's Gap here that's 600
pm and that's the settlement price on
Friday that's what these Dash lines are
that is simply just me annotating the
weekly uh Gap so it's new week opening
Gap and now on the on the 15 minute time
frame I'm going to zoom out okay I'm
going to zoom out and take in more
information hang on one
second if you have headphones on be
careful right now
sorry about
that I have to just disturb her a little
bit because
uh she's starting to really saw some
logs over
there all right so we
have oh there's those daily relative
equal
lows and look what is below it we have
the
weekly buy side and balance sell side
and efficiency remember we on the weekly
chart I said I think that we could
explore going down into the very
minimum the high of that bissy on the
weekly chart which is the high that blue
shaded area that's anchored on the
weekly chart but it just so happens to
be inside of the same proximity of this
low in that low so what's resting rate
below
here sell side liquidity
so we can now
take not
that and as I do this Caleb you can you
can only this time you can do uh
screenshots of my charts while I'm doing
this live stream so that way you can
have it it'll save you some
time but this is what you're going to be
doing you do this every single day you
go through your charts and you look at
what was given to you with uh too big
in okay so you have sell side liquidity
below these relative equal
lows
and now with September 23rd's weekly low
you now can State also in there that it
is
also 15- minute time frame relative
equal
lows sou side
all right so now screen you
screenshotting this because you can see
where the reference point is and then
going back over
to where price is now we have a little
inefficiency right now we're trading up
into and we're also inside of another
inefficiency that's being shown I made
the mistake because I'm talking um when
you draw your inefficiencies you want to
annotate them as well so you can toggle
them and then type in whatever time
frame it's anchored to that way when
you're looking at them they're much more
meaningful I don't need to have them
labeled because I'm used to not having
them at all except for just the
numerical values so when I'm watching
price I'm very frequently just watching
this over here this price access I'm
literally watching that more than I'm
watching the candlesticks because what
I'm watching over here I'm directly
correlating to what I have in my notepad
which is every one of these reference
points and I'm constantly writing them
in the order of where they're at in
other words I don't write them in a list
that I find this value first and then
below it I'll find another value here
and then I find another value I'm not
doing that on my notepad I'm putting
them in the order that they would be on
a
chart so in other words if a price level
is
20,
13.75 I'm not going to write this uh
this price here at 2,193 if I find that
value as a PD array I'm not going to
write that underneath this one because
that's not not what I'm looking at I'm
looking at how the the daily range is
going to map out on a piece of paper in
a notepad form and because it's on a
notepad what I do is every single hour
I'm also writing down the high and the
low of that hour and I'm I'm getting
a numerical interpretation of what that
daily candlestick's doing and I don't
need I don't need this chart
I don't need that you're asking me to
show you something that's going to open
up a whole Panorama not Panorama but
Pandora's box of questions that I don't
want to go through because I don't it's
just something I've been doing for 30
years and you're probably never going to
do it right and I don't want to teach it
because it's not necessary use the
charts the charts are going to tell you
everything you need it's is something I
started because I had to do things like
this because I wasn't able to watch
realtime price action that that that's
all that's all that it that's all that
it is and then when I started us using
this same idea when I was able to watch
Real Time price data I would keep track
of it intraday and I would add more
information I didn't have all these
reference points because I didn't see
them driving around in a step band when
I was servicing soda machines and candy
machines and cold food and coffee
machines that's was my
job but I was so used to doing it it was
just a habit and that's what I have I
have a notepad with these reference
points it's not something that's
scientific that's going to make your
trading better it just means that that
that's what I do
you don't need to do that you just use
the charts because the charts going to
tell you everything you
need and you want to use a Time based
chart you don't want to be using renco
bars you don't want to be doing any kind
of uh range bars all that stuff is going
to hide the very things I'm teaching you
that is time based the algorithm
operates on time first if you're using
Rinko bars if you're using uh um [__]
there's all kinds of stuff out there
that um anything like a rangeb bar ranco
bars or the equivalent if they're not
showing you to open high low and close
on an interval of time you're not going
to be able to see what the algorithm's
doing I promise you that everybody out
there that wants to talk algorithmic
[__] they displ that little name that
buzzword on there because it's going to
make people think they're
informed I'm teaching you how to look at
the very aspects of time because the
time based chart and a Candlestick is
easy to see versus an open high low and
close bar
this small little inefficiency in
here I know Daniel I'm not drinking from
your Yeti I was in a rush to get in
front of the charts this
morning I have used it several times
there by the way
here's
Daniel all right so we have a CBI Here
Sell sign balance buy s efficiency and
we
have the 60-minute discount wi
consequent encroachment that means on a
hourly chart that big long Wick that
went lower that made a swing low at
that's half of that Wick so in my mind
before we drop down to a lower five
minute chart
now in my mind I'm anticipating
a run to this level it might want to go
down below it come back up dilly d
around that consequent encroachment
level worst case scenario and then dive
into in into the cell side resting
around that
19953 level okay
so I
anticipate that happening I am not
imposing my will on the market I'm not
saying it has to to happen because I
want this to happen I I I wrote these
things on my chart so therefore it has
to happen no the market has to indicate
that it wants to do that it needs to do
certain things and we're going to look
at that today okay but up till now this
is my
pre-market analysis approach this is all
it is is it complicated no I did more
talking about other things probably
pissed a lot of you off but it's a
matter of Simply doing what I just did
here looking for reference points from
the higher time frame weekly chart
because you're going to have to refer to
where are we at where could it be
reaching for the weekly chart because if
you don't refer to that you're going to
hide all of these really big runs that
might jump out at you un unaware you
you'll be unaware and
uh you won't be
expecting big moves if you don't have
the big mve perspective time frame in
mind which is the weekly chart a stained
price run is going to unfold if the
weekly chart if the monthly chart is
indicating that it's likely to go to any
given higher or lower price but if
you're framing your trade on the basis
of just a 15-minute time frame and
that's all you do if that's all you do
you won't have the perspective that's
required to capture these big monster
several hundred handle runs even if you
are not a swing Trader or a short-term
Trader
but wouldn't it make sense if you could
just go into the chart one time at the
beginning of the week say okay here's
the L of land this is what could happen
and at least have it on your
chart that way because they're in your
charts now they're anotated in there you
won't forget about them because as price
if let me ask you this if price started
to break down in here and it got down to
this level here knowing what I've
already shown you would it be easy now
because I've walked you through it would
it be easy for you to trust that it's
going to at least trade down to the
consequent correction of that Wick if it
was trading like right here wouldn't it
be reasonable wouldn't it be easier for
you to trust
that versus right now do you feel
confident that it's going to drop right
from here some of you may not think it's
it's going to do that some of you might
think it's going to go higher before it
does that I or you're wrong ICT I'm
going long whatever the point is my
question was if it dropped sharply and
was trading right about here would it be
easy at that time for you to submit to
the idea that it's probably going to
trade down to that that midw midwick
level on the hourly chart and if it went
through that wouldn't it be reasonable
to see it trade down into these relative
equal lows because they're really smooth
right can you
see how price could work from this level
here not at that level specifically but
in this General region because we have
an inefficiency that's shaded
there can you see how I can move from
this one to the blue
one can you visually see how that could
be delivered
because if you can't see that that's
going to be problematic for your trading
because you have to be able to see your
setups before they're there you have to
be able to see how that could pan
out and that's an experience-driven
thing it's not something that you're
going to be able to see the first time
Caleb it's overtime back testing uh
that's the point of taking screenshots
of Trades that you did not do but you
mark them up and you talk in the chart
annotations like you seen it coming and
you congratulate yourself and you're
tricking your subconscious mind and I'm
literally going to be doing two days
I'll not every day but I'm going to do
two days Caleb where I'm actually going
to annotate in a journal perspective
that way you see exactly what I'm
talking about when I'm saying that you
need a sweet soft talk yourself into
seeing it but it's going to be in
hindsight you're going to see it in
hindsight because you don't have the
skill set yet but by recording it and
annotating your chart with the things I
teach my
students it tricks your subconscious
mind so that way when they look at your
when they not look at your Journal but
when they look at their journal and when
you look at your journal on the weekend
and you read your own comments saying
that yes it was amazing to see how I
expected this to pan out just like this
it's textbook you keep giving yourself a
cheerleading
uh
Milestone every time a new chart's
presented in your Journal you're
annotating everything that happened in
hindsight like you knew it was going to
happen and by doing that over a
repetitive period of time I don't know
how long time it's going to be for all
of you but over time doing that as a
ritual every single day it's a routine
it's a regimen that you do every single
day and you journal every single day you
will get better at reading price you'll
see the setups before they form you'll
anticipate them and then when they do
farm you'll be able to learn how to
trade them okay and last week I was
supposed to do some work on uh limit
orders we absolutely be doing some of
that today and throughout the week but
the the ability to see the potential how
it could deliver from this
inefficiency down to that one it makes
sense that it could do that and it need
not be an overall reversal long term and
still see this deliver like that it
could go down here and upset this here
and then create some important low and
make a higher high and go to all-time
highs don't think that we're trying to
predict or that I'm trying to sell the
idea that I'm predicting the top in the
market I'm not trying to do that I'll
all I'm doing is I'm framing this is the
best case scenario this is how I frame
it in my mind okay when I go through my
first my first analysis for the week and
my pre-market analysis I'm looking for
things that I can hang my hat on and say
okay push comes to so I am going to
submit myself to this above anything
else but if I don't have something that
allows me to get a trade like this then
I'm going to trade with less leverage
when I'm taking
Longs do you see see what I just did
there I gave myself permission to be
wrong about this analysis but this is
the one that I'm going to do the
heavy-handed leverage on so I want to be
a short seller with my heaviest leverage
aiming for that cell side right there
that's that's what I'm doing this week
it may not go there today but that's
what I'm looking for this week that's my
real good one shot oneill
setup
hello I'm literally I'm I'm I'm teaching
everything that you've asked for but can
you imagine how I I have to go through a
lot of things that to show you why it's
important and what other things are not
required because you've been watching
lots of my videos and you think
everything I've ever talked about is
necessary for every trade that sets up
in your in your in your time frame it's
not
true not every single price run is going
to have a propulsion block not every
single price run is going to have an
Institutional entry I'm sorry
institutional order flow entry drill not
every single one of them is going to
have a breaker
not every single one of them is going to
have every PD
array but there will be a fair value Gap
in every [__] one of them okay that's
the one that's always going to be there
you may get a little late in the run but
that's okay as long as that fair value
Gap is in a premium relative to the
range that's going to expand from to the
Target Target is this okay this is
Terminus this is my if we trade the here
my best case scenario my my weekly one
shot one kill has been
satisfied if I do any other trading it's
just going to be
scalps now I have answered a huge list
of questions just with what I've done so
far here is a monologue now let's go
down into a lower time
frame five minute
chart all right so we're looking at a
five minute chart with the new week
opening Gap that's that purple Dash
lines
are the only concern I
have is that these highs even though
there was smt between es and the NASDAQ
recall that uh this High here on ES was
slightly higher than that of the
respective High here I'm going to toggle
back to es and show you in a second just
give me a moment but uh looking at this
chart if I'm wrong
I do believe that we're going to get
down here like based on what we have
right now what changes that what what
makes me put that idea on the sidelines
for a little while until something gets
back in in in favor of it because I'm
I'm not infallible I have to have a
contingency plan if this is what I'm
looking for if I want to see price trade
down there and I'm only interested in
taking that type of trade then what am I
doing I'm imposing my will and I'm
teaching you not to do that okay give me
one second
folks
Scout scouts over there snoring
obnoxiously Man sound like a lumberjack
good grief so um I'm teaching you not to
impose your will Caleb just because dad
teaches you to do this with your
analysis it doesn't mean go in there
thinking that it's going to be it's
going to be just like you think because
the market will humble you quickly if
you come in there with your will being
imposed it's going to take your will chw
up and spit it out some days and that's
this that's the reality of it so you
save yourself a lot of emotional damage
psychological impact that's adverse if
you just open up the idea that you could
potentially be wrong
but if given the opportunity to find a
short trade this is what I'm aiming for
I'm aiming for that down there and
everything I've taught on this YouTube
channel you all should be able to see
how that fits perfectly it's not
something it's not it's not a new
science being taught here you can
clearly see oh this makes perfect sense
even if the overall higher time frame
bullishness is still going to be in play
and it makes higher highs on the week
after it goes down here I don't care
about that right now I don't care about
that I just know that I am presently at
this moment I'm not interested in being
a buyer I don't want to be a long holder
I want to see it trade down here because
think about what it does by doing
that anyone that's long if it trades
down here this is the part for narrative
purposes because I've already given you
a bias but now I got to tell you how it
might
deliver so this is where I think it
could go could and will it is two
different
things but if I can frame a narrative
game plan a way that the price action
will be implemented in people's charts
to entice them to lower them to unseat
some to allow their seat to be taken by
someone else with deeper pockets that's
what narrative is it's it's how the
market will
manipulate the participants and Traders
through
sentiment or sudden movement in price
action because they're going to rush
they they're afraid to miss a move so
they're going to chase price all these
types of things I start going through my
mind think how could that be
implemented because just having this
analysis is not enough it it gives you a
foundation to operate in
but what can I do in my mind to to flesh
out a narrative why would it be going
down in this Blue
Area you have to have the best case
scenario on both sides for a
narrative what I mean by that
I've already submitted to you that I am
not trying to
be someone that's trying to pick the top
in NASDAQ I'm not trying to do that and
I'm not suggesting at any any capacity
at all that by me expecting any kind of
short in this area here to trade down
here that's not me predicting the top
and that wouldn't be unsettling for the
underlying bullishness of the NASDAQ on
a high time frame in fact it's actually
very constructive because we've traded
higher for a good period of time over a
month or so
and coming down here to absorb trailed
stop losses in the form of sell stops or
sell side liquidity below relative equal
lows it's advantageous for people to
take shorts off at that level that's a
good area for smart money to to recoup
their short position and cover and if
the market is in fact going to go higher
this would be a great place to take
price down there so they can accumulate
Longs there so what did I just do I
framed both sides of the narrative how
retail can be
cannibalized so narrative is how can
price be used to facilitate the means of
smart money getting in holding to a
particular price level and then once it
gets there what would they do next and
how would that be advantageous for
them I may I may be entirely Incorrect
and it may never even go down here this
week but I have to go in with something
at the beginning of the week as a
framework I've already said that it
doesn't needan to do this for me to find
trade setups it just means that this is
where my heaviest handed leverage will
be anchored to a trade that trades down
in here because I want to be a short
seller in this area because my belief is
if if smart money has sold short last
week inside that daily fair value Gap
then why would they want to just be
taking profits here when they can take
it all the way down here and get a huge
range and on board new Longs if they're
bullish because that just cancels out
the need for me to be right about
picking a top right I'm not I'm not
trying to pick a
top
so having the uh the discussion of
narrative in
books I can only do one case study or
two and have pages of it and it won't
scratch the surface that's why I talk
about the things I talk about over price
action because I need you to understand
how you should internalize price because
there is an entity that's smart money
they are greedy they're more greedy than
you are and they have the advantage they
have the inside track they know exactly
what this algorithm is
doing they're doing more than I'm doing
they know more than I do and they're in
Partnership so
they're they're like a Confederate okay
if you were watching a magician at a
show they employed what is called a
Confederate someone that's in the crowd
that you don't recognize as as part of
the part of the show but they'll say all
right let's uh let's pick somebody from
the crowd well as soon as they do that
chances are that that's a Confederate
that's somebody that's already part of
the show but they'll they'll blur it up
a little bit to make it look like it was
a random selection of that person so
they're all part of the show well smart
money is part of this rigged game
system they're part of it and the
algorithm is just the price engine that
delivers price up and down and goes to
these points of reference for the
purpose of trading to engage the
liquidity or repic to inefficiencies
that's the only things that happen
algorithmically if it's not being
delivered that way then manual
intervention comes in and then you see
what we saw like last week
or FMC or um like when when when pal
starts talking
today that's absolutely 100% manual
intervention that's why you should not
be doing anything while he's talking and
for 15 minutes after he stops
talking start looking in price and
looking at my PD arrays and when they
start booking perfectly to the tick that
means everything went back to algorithm
delivery but if I'm wrong let's say I'm
wrong okay
because that's always a likelihood I
spend times where I've had in my private
mentorship when I gave my weekly
analysis I wasn't 100% but I was in the
high 90s accurate but the times that I'm
not right I have to have a contingency
plan what would I do if I'm not going to
sit still because we I can't tell you
I'm going to sit still on a Monday and
while we're at it today's Monday of
non-farm payroll I am always trading
that Monday I'm always trading on the
Monday of nonfarm payroll I tell
everyone that's a new student to just
sit still on Mondays outside of nonfarm
payroll because they usually use that
day to set the initial parameters for
the weekly range and you might get
chopped up you might have a winning
trade but you hold on to it too long and
turns against you or you're doing it
wrong because you just don't know what
you're doing so that's why I tell new
students don't trade on Mondays and
start they trading on Tuesday you their
active participation and say it that way
so
because it's Monday I'm not on
payroll and we have Fed chair Fed chair
talking this afternoon we want to be
able to find our setup within the first
hour of trading so that means
9:30 to 10:30 in that one hour interval
if you can't find your setup then don't
do anything just simply sit still and
don't do anything okay because the
closer we get to Fed chair talking later
on in the afternoon the closer we get to
the after afterno lunch hour which is
technically 2 hours is 11:30 to 1:30
p.m. the more likely that you're going
to get slapped around and you'll get
beat up so you have to have a limit in
terms of the time that you're willing to
do something on the day that the FED
chairman is going to be
talking when they're talking and just
before they're talking the hand comes in
the manual intervention the thing that
you don't expect to see in price and if
you're in there you're probably going to
get crushed you're probably going to get
stopped out you're probably going to get
scared out of your trade everything that
would go wrong that could go wrong is
going to happen so don't be in the
marketplace then I don't know why
anybody would argue against that that
idea of preserv preserving Capital
because that's all it
is you are in the times when the market
is the least likely to pan out in your
favor and if you win it's it's just
happen stance it's this that it just
happened that you were on that side that
time
it's not a consistent thing where
anybody can go in there and say okay the
Fed chair is talking so I'm going to go
short while he's doing this or I'm going
to go long anytime someone makes money
like that and they want to show it
online just block them just mute them do
something because they're literally just
trying to get an ad Bo or an at a girl
and I'm telling you that that's the
worst time to be in the marketplace it's
the worst because you don't know what
they're
doing this is the person that's the head
of the FED okay the Federal Reserve
these people are not looking out for
your best interest they're not they're
controlling a narrative they're troll
they're trolling us right now over the
last several years okay and everything
that's being done to us as an American
society and through the economic cycle
is
punishment so they're not going to be
honest with you they're not going to
tell you how to help you make money okay
they're going to tell you something that
is absolutely useless to you in in
talking points so you might as well just
let them do whatever damage they're
going to do wait 15 minutes after they
done talking and then go in and see what
we have if the prices are reacting off
to my PD arrays and inefficiencies or
are trading into them and leaving right
away you can tell that we're back to
algorithmic delivery if it's not like
that yet don't trade now doesn't that
make that very straightforward and
simple you have rules when you should
when you
can't not when you might you know it's
when you should and if it's not when you
should it's every time no I'm not doing
anything
you have to be much more rigid about
when you don't do something and don't
create these little pockets of well I
would normally not trade here but I just
feel like you know I'm G to probably get
this one right that's that's impulsive
trading impulsive trading Caleb is how
you are going to lose money because you
have that little tendency like I have
where if I'm provoked I'm going to
bite if someone chests up to me I'm
there to knock their [__] block
I'm I'm like that I'm confrontational
but in trading you'll have your ass hand
it to you and you have to be very very
careful that you don't invite those
instances and if you feel
like that you're going to have that
influence even on a day where you see
everything is good technically there's
no manual intervention likely to happen
it's low resistance liquidity runs if
you feel that impulse that you if you
feel that tendency coming over you turn
the charts off
I'm your dad I know what I mean by and
you know what I mean by that but anyone
else listening if you have a a reckless
um
disposition that's my permission to you
also even though that we may be in low
resistance quility run
conditions you have to identify where
you're going to be euphoric or manic or
out of control
impulsive greedy or or at the highest
highest uh degree of
panic and you get par paralyzed so that
that these are all things you discover
about yourself in the first stages of
documenting your development and
journaling what do you feel when you're
watching price action do you feel
euphoric do you feel scared even though
you're not even in a trade you feel ansy
you feel like you're looking for
everything to cause that trade not to be
profitable so that way you can say I
saved myself a lot of time worrying
about this because it didn't work I
watched it happen
fail like these are all critical things
you have to take inventory on but when
you're trading in days like this where
we have a
looming event in the afternoon you will
see manual intervention today guarant
damed it's going to happen you're going
to see it you can predict it you can
anticipate it we are not going to wait
to see if it happens and then react to
it we know that there's a pothole down
the road in the afternoon session so
don't trade the afternoon session how
hard is that some of you say oh he said
not to do it I'm gonna go out there and
do it well I understand that I read a
sign says don't walk on the grass I want
a moonwalk on it I know it's natural
tendency that's a sinful nature but in
trading why are you going to invite
recklessness that causes you to lose
money if you're
wrong I'm not going to be impressed if
you come and show hey look at this I
said this I'm never like man I'm exposed
he took a trade in a time I said I
wouldn't take a trade he should do
mentorships let me let me sign up to his
mentorship I'm not thinking like that
I'm thinking you're a goober and you're
literally gambling that's that's how
that's how I see it I see that with
anybody that's traing if you're live
streaming you're trying to do it during
these time period you're an idiot like
you're an idiot you're literally asking
to have your lunch
eaten and you're leaving a tip
so we're in a five minute chart we have
our inefficiency here we're going to
drop down into a one minute chart
uh I'm I'm
may I may not go down to a 15-second
chart this morning we will be in a 15sec
chart every single day the rest of the
the week because I want to go in and
teach you um volatility pinball
where you're literally
engaging several times in an hour you're
buying and selling buying and selling
buying and selling and what it well was
for me to teach myself to get over the
fear of
shorting I had to desensitize myself and
that idea came from Larry Williams out
of his own mouth he said that he was
scared to take trades and because I
heard my hero say those words what did I
do I Associated myself with that oh so
he feels that way I'm 20 years old I'm
impressionable like all of you are he he
said something and I was like you know
what I want to assume associate myself
with this man as much as I can I want to
emulate this man as much as I can I want
to be successful like this man as much
as I can so he says that he's afraid of
taking
trades before I started trading I had
that underlying thought process I wonder
if I'm going to be scared of trading but
I wasn't initially I just went in there
and like a like a cowboy just jumped on
that bull and rode Road Road rad and I
was only buying
look right
here what's going on
here there's cells side resting right
below
there so I started with this uh I'm
going to go in and I'm going
to go
short and uh try to defeat these demons
that I'm afraid of and
I was afraid every single time like
full-blown anxiety attacks every single
time and it was it's horrifying because
I didn't understand what I was doing I
was I knew I could lose money because I
was losing money as a long holder when I
would go long I would I would have
losing trades I could make money but I
would lose it too and because the market
had
shifted everything that would have been
bullish was just a small little
consolidation and then it would drop
lower so I would be tricked into
thinking that the indicators that were
oversold and diver verging bullishly and
whatnot and my moving average maybe even
sloping up on50 day uh simple moving
average I'm sorry exponential moving
average that was my model back then and
because everything at the time was going
up you know I was in the '90s bull
market so of course it's not skill but I
felt like it
was and I was on America Online trying
to teach people how to to do what was
obvious the market was going to go up
right so I tricked myself into thinking
that I was hot [__] back then and I
didn't KN really know what I was doing
and then when the market went to a a
bearish phase where it just wanted to go
lower every time I bought I lost every
single time and I would just erode the
account erode the account and I'd have
to work a part-time job in addition to
the long hours I did and it was it was
terrible it was terrible to get the
little bit of money scraped up again to
put into an account and I would repeat
the same cycle over and over and over
again and then I was like well you know
I got to learn how to be a short seller
like I have to be I have to be able to
do this and the way I overcame that
was Ed the logic that Larry Williams
said he did he was afraid of taking
trades from the beginning and in the
beginning I wasn't it was something that
I
adopted because I want to associate
myself with him psychologically and I
was emotionally committed to being a
student of his he didn't know me from
anyone but I wanted to assimilate with
his thought process on everything and
the only thing that you should
assimilate with me me is how Price Books
me is the person none of you should look
up to as a hero I am not I am not
someone to look up to I am absolutely
100% fallible I am a sinner I am not a
good role model I say things to inight
people emotionally to cause them to come
here for the express purpose of proving
them wrong I I get off on that that's
not something that's a a good
characteristic in a person because I
feel like I have to scratch an itch that
deep rooted in my childhood I have that
all the time in in in me that that's
that's a character flaw that's why I'm
not the best Mentor I have a deep rooted
Vendetta that I have to I have to prove
myself to my grandfather not you not you
listening I have to prove something to
my grandfather I can't I can't do that
so I'm never satisfied so it causes me
to do things impulsively and that's why
you see me do the best I can in terms of
managing that by in flaming other people
make them come here and prove that what
I'm doing isn't true isn't real and then
when I make profitable students and they
become millionaires it's satisfying to
me I twist the knife because it
satisfies me if I was in 100% control
over myself I wouldn't have those
impulses but I don't so therefore I'm
not the best Mentor because I
am I'm I'm riddled with that so but in
in terms of price
action you absolutely should assimilate
yourself to that because what I'm
teaching is distinct from me as the man
the person I'm not here for friends you
you should never want to meet me you're
not going to be impressed I'm not going
to want to be friendly with you I'm
introverted I don't sound like I'm
introverted because I'm talking to a
screen with my child in
mine but if you met me I would not feel
inclined to be able to talk to you like
this it would take time for for that to
happen I met one of my students on the
internet one of them just one and I was
extremely
uncomfortable very very uncomfortable
and I don't want to do that again as
much as many you want that to happen I
don't want I don't want to have that
happen what I'm watching here is see how
the bodies are just hanging around the
middle of this
inefficiency
9:30 let's take a look at the
uh so we have a discount
Gap that could trade up into
here I know it's an ugly color
all right so we're in the lower
quadrant of the opening range
Gap uh I was saying earlier and I didn't
get a chance to say because I was
discussing other things if I was wrong
about it going down
[Music]
into the weekly imbalance and that
hourly discount Wick it may want to come
up and take buy side out so it could
take a a pass through this is assuming
I'm wrong it could trade above that and
really entice people to think it's going
to go higher and then had I'd have to
wait for it to break down
again and get down
below whatever first very first SP value
got that forms in the one one minute
chart which is yet to
form but any setup the entry would have
to be in the first hour trading set
between 9:30 and 10:30 and if there's no
entry there's no trade I would
simply tell kale he can't trade he can't
take a trade today but he can trade all
way up to in in inside that first hour
so that means what he can take a silver
bullet I don't know what that
is what is that
I must have laid a rectangle down and
didn't complete it there's nothing in
here I'm looking at there the uh buy
side has been ran
here so we went above the opening range
Gap relative to last Friday's settlement
to today's open that's what that yellow
box is
any of this run here I'm not interested
in any of
that if it keeps on going higher it
simply means it's going to do it without
me see how liberating that is I'm not
arm wrestling and saying I have to be in
here long I have to figure out how long
if I'm wrong I have to figure it out no
I don't you don't have to either
Caleb social media has a a terrible
tendency to make people think that
someone else out there is always taking
the trade that's moving right now and
I'm telling you I have lots of ways to
get into every single type of move I'm
not thinking that way and I'm certainly
not trying to do that and nobody out
there as a Trader should be trying to do
that top of that uh inefficiency that's
shaded here this one
that that low shaded area to that high
shaded area it could come up here and
hit that if it's going to go there it
would make sense for it to Wick above
take the liquidity out here otherwise it
would need to stop with the bodies in
the upper quadrant of
it about where it's at and then roll
over anything that's shown here right
now I'm not interested in any of that
just want to take a quick look at es and
comparison all right you can see what es
can do
right right
here there's your buy side so it might
be trying to get up here to disrupt
this so for ES we can monitor this one
it does definitely have a a draw on
liquidity
there for
take a look at TH look at
TH so what we're seeing here is the
decoupling decoupling is when all three
averages are doing something
different this drop down is not seen in
NASDAQ it's not seen in es let's go back
to
es see that so I would expect them to
come up here and disrupt this they don't
have to but it would be much more
meaningful if they hit it and then
started to sell off that means they took
out these individuals here if they take
them out what are they doing it for
they're taking them out to take their
stops and they're going to sell short
against those buy stops so anyone that's
short they have their proteced uh buy
stop right above here so it's reasonable
to anticipate the market want to go up
there what would be the narrative for
that well if it goes higher on the day
it goes without saying that that would
be a nice area for them to take partial
profits and lock in something profitably
but I like the idea of it going there to
see if it can unseat these individuals
ual they don't get to have the profit
here it's being taken from them and then
if it sells off from there and it starts
to build in um technicals that would
send us down to that sell
side that's the idea and that's the side
of the the the market I want to be on
this is all just me watching and
monitoring and just yeah okay we're tape
reading it I'm not in it I don't want to
trade it long in there we can but I'm
not interested I want to see what we do
when we get
there add to it that we have the IND
is's not
agreeing
so the only element of Dow theory that I
do use okay is I like the idea if I'm
bearish I want to see all three averages
moving in the same
direction that's that's simple okay um
but I don't see that here today neither
do you the Dow has
dropped the NASDAQ has gone higher well
let's go back to it real quick the S&P
is obviously doing what you see it doing
here so this is a
decoupled actually this is watch I'm hit
the stops first then we'll go to
n whenever you're trading looking for a
setup or when you're in a trade setup
you want to see all three averages
agree that means if you're bearish and
you're in a short even though I don't
like the Dow because it's only 30 stocks
and it's a little unruly that's why it's
called a
dirty30 the uh
the impact on its
movement buying it of itself is is not
all that important but it is usually
sometimes the canary in in the coine
where if we see the Dow just saying no
not doing something that you you other
two are doing um that may be indicative
of
something changing not all the
time but if I do see a Divergence
between the NASDAQ and the S&P
and they're not doing the same thing
that's clearly a time when you don't
want to be trading because you're in a
decoupled condition and you're most
likely playing in a sandbox where manual
intervention is about to happen you're
going to have sand kicked in your face
you're not going to be able to see what
you're doing you're going to lose
visibility and you're going to lose
money and if you lose control of
yourself you'll wreck yourself go and
tilt and blow your account so long story
short you want to have a a day or a
session when you're trading where all
three average are a green so we'll we'll
cycle through we just went right back to
the same high I I I think they're going
to still go up and hit that but let's
look at
NASDAQ Okay so we've took out the highs
we ran over here and took the high out
over here told you if it was going to go
to the high that shaded area it'd be
reasonable to anticipate them blowing
out the stops above here which we've
just seen them do
that
there see that so I would want to see it
it unfortunately it's probably gonna
have to hang around up here until es
completes
its rotation for byy
side here I mean it would be highly
unlikely for it to to leave it like that
and to start to drop it's happened
before we saw that a couple weeks ago
with the um the NASDAQ it just left
those quadruple highs up there and
dropped like almost a thousand handles
and then came back to it later on
and now watch with the
Dow are they all agreeing no so how can
you feel comfortable sitting on the
sidelines and that you don't have a
trade on right now when the market looks
like this all three in a perfect world
when there is symmetry this is not a
symmetrical Market a symmetrical Market
is where all three averages are moving
in the same
direction this is saying I'm not even
going up there I'm going to go low
which to me I'm taking that based on
what I've already did as an premarket
analysis that this is the canaran the co
mine it's saying that there's something
wrong with this let's go back and look
at the other indices here's the
S&P and here is the NASDAQ so I would
like to see NASDAQ just stay here hold
it like a bull flag formation let it
like anticipated breaking higher and
then a sharp break down lower and then
inside the opening range Gap treat the
the midpoint once it gets below that
treat that midpoint as a premium and
then sell off from there and
displace but we have uh the very
first
um fair value Gap here on the one minute
chart is at 931 it's rather
large
there and it was this is all ahead of
the Chicago PMI too by the way that
comes out in less than 4
minutes so I take this as them fluffing
up the market stopping out any any any
individuals that were short and then
they may elect to take the the market
down
sharply into our objectives here on the
day or going into tomorrow that's kind
of
like what I internalize
Scout such a little tiny boxer like
she's little but she snores like a St
Bernard sweetie but she's I don't know
she's got an awful
snore we don't care about your dog ICT
put a trade
on sorry this is Union rolles off F have
to talk about things outside the chart
to to distract you Union rules man we
have to do it all the
time this guy's an
[__] right see look at the D this is
garbage you guys want to trade this one
man like this this to me I know some of
you like oh this is my thing this is my
thing you can have your thing
look at that it stopped dead on the
high that would annoy me to be honest
with you if they just dropped it from
there that would absolutely annoy me but
it would mean that we're probably going
to have to come up up here later on
which would be fine right if they're
going to take it all the way down to our
NASDAQ objective they're leaving what up
here then buy side so coming all the way
down to that deep discount on NASDAQ and
dropping es and sympathy with it this
would be where the market would draw to
on the upside if if it goes down
there down where
down
there so looks like we're trying to
build in that pseudo bull flag
thing so right away you can see how and
why I don't keep all this stuff on my
chart because because it's to me it's
absolutely
distracting but I have to have these
things framed out for you to understand
what I'm looking at so if I'm you know
if I'm
holding an opinion around certain key
levels what are they based on well
everything I've outlined
here all right 30 seconds to Chicago PMI
number
10 seconds we'll see some
volatility this is a medium impact news
driver so it's not red but it's inside
that first 30 minutes opening range so
it can tend to be a little bit more
animated than normal
really should be looking at
es see if they run around those relative
equal
highs no matter what price is
doing in this
environment because there's a decoupling
between all three averages
that gives me a
confidence to sit
still if everything if every aage was
moving in the same direction I would
feel like they were probably going to
take it higher and continuously move
higher but because the Dow had already
like imagine a a canary a little bird
okay Co miners used to have these little
bird cages in the in the coine with them
and because they're a smaller little
animal their lung capacity is smaller
and they're more susceptible to adverse
climate and environmental
changes when oxygen levels would drop to
dangerous levels the coal miners would
know that because the canary would stop
chirping and it would be
dead so the Dow was in my opinion so far
that's what it looks like it looks like
it was the canary and the co mine this
morning saying that um it went down when
the other two averages the NASDAQ and
the ES went
up es has unfinished business
here in the form of buy
sign so that's that's the hold up for
anything going short for me I want to
see it go here disrupt these relative
equal
highs and then see how we trade after it
does that and I would like to see it
move lower sharply after it goes there
so I'm sitting here I'm waiting for a
certain criteria to be met to frame the
idea around the narrative I already
outlined this
morning we have a few clues that that
might be in play but we still have to
work
through the effects of the Chicago
PMI not that the data itself is moving
price they use these import uh these
high impact or medium impact news
drivers they use these as smoke screens
basically so without I'm getting at like
it it's easy to justify on the news oh
yeah the market had a so and so rally to
blah blah blah because of the Chicago
PMI number the Market's not reacting off
of the number the Market's going to go
to where it needs to go in this case
it's going to go to where the stops
are but anyone that doesn't think the
way I'm teaching to look at the
market algorithmically for the purposes
of taking liquidity unseating
individuals and taking over their
position or knocking them out of their
profitable position to add more to their
longer term profitable trade that's what
the market
does and by having that
perspective it
uh in my in my mind it does give me an
advantage versus just looking for a
pattern for sake of it appearing in
books and people say it works I've lost
money on patterns
but knowing where the liquidity is the
time of day how this entity cannibalizes
other traders that don't realize that it
exists it's like that monster under your
bed it's
there you know it's there but you're
just too afraid to bend down and look
underneath it or let your foot dangle
off the edge of the bed
so in 2024 you have been getting a
clinic on how to avoid adverse market
conditions markets are moving around I'm
not denying that but they're moving
around in a manner where I can be
comfortable not being a part of them
because it fits the logic that I'm
teaching what happens when these things
are not in place in in price we're
active we're in there trading we're in
there taking setups and we have low
stress we have no anxiety we have 100%
trust in what we're looking at because
we don't have these
things plaguing it a perfect world a
perfect trade
setup all three averages are going to
move
together that's Dow Theory that's the
only extent of Dow theory that I have
that's it I want to see the averages
confirm and I didn't learn that part
from Dow Theory I learned that from
Georg and
gel
so that idea of when S&P is moving
higher or lower because when I first
started trading S&P I would have the
NASDAQ I would have the
Dow I would have a tick chart I would
have um a couple other little retail
things that are not even important and I
would use the idea of all three of
the averages needing to move in the same
direction
if I'm bullish or
bearish and at that time I was using
floor pivot
numbers and that was my support and
resistance those levels those numbers
and I didn't understand when I was
watching them trade through those levels
that there was something else going on
it was going to the liquidity that's
beyond that floor number just because
those numbers are calculated on the
previous days open high low and close
you know it doesn't mean it's going to
be the low the day or the high of the
day or the session but
liquidity below an old low or old lows
can be the low of the day liquidity
above a old high or relative equal highs
can be the high of the day and the pivot
number is just a suggestion of where it
might reach for it's like a it's like a
draw on liquidity but it's never ever to
be viewed as a ter this level where this
is it it's never going to go beyond
that that's the mistake I I found I was
making and I think every other Trader
that uses floor numbers and pivot
numbers
U they they use them as a Panacea like
nothing's a Panacea like literally
nothing in trading is a Panacea there's
no be all end all ends everything this
is it answers all questions because if
anything like that existed number one I
can tell you honestly I would never
teach that and nobody else would
either so stop looking for it because
nobody no one's going to share that with
you and they're never going to sell it
either even if it is an expensive amount
of money because they could sell things
for $5,000 even though it's for free on
YouTube if they the it was exactly what
they tried to Market it as they would
never sell it they would just simply use
it because that that edge would diminish
well the reason why I can teach this is
because this is the market it's the
lifeblood of markets time and price and
liquidity if it ain't liquidity it's
inefficiencies and that's always going
to be the game it's it's never going to
be anything but
that all right looks like we could make
a attempt to get up here finally work
those levels
out got 37 and a half minutes where
Caleb could still find a
setup take a quick look at down real
quick yeah still ugly
okay see see what it's
doing it's just hanging around I like
that I like this to me I view this as
it's it's got to look like it's trying
to to be
bullish to allow es to do its damage on
those relative equal highs that that's
that's how I see this this right here
this it's ugly it's really really ugly
that's exactly what I was telling you
say it's going to hang around in like
this bull flag type form where people
are going to want to see it go higher
they want this to break out to the
upside retail Traders want to buy this
they want to be long in this especially
after seeing all this [__] so by having
es with its unfinished business up
here here's what's happening Phil's
watching my live stream this
morning and he's like I'm gonna [__]
with you today ICT we're gonna sit here
and just Hammer that hammer that hammer
that it's okay it's okay I'm still gonna
make money
today I'm still going to make money
today it don't have it don't have to be
in this stream
bro but we're waiting for the green
light after the bid's taken here
[Laughter]
now let me ask you a question if you
were say you went
long okay say you were long in here
somewhere in this
area or maybe use this in efficiency
here how would you feel with way the
market is trading right here would you
feel
uncomfortable would you feel like you're
comfortably going to submit to it
eventually break into the upside to get
these relative equal highs and would you
expect that to continue if it goes up
here and keep moving higher or are you
trying to just get out and be done with
it
here because admittedly I would be a
little uncomfortable with the amount of
time it's spending in
here because it could very well do what
we saw a couple weeks ago the same thing
with NASDAQ
it would fit the the
underlying idea about if it if it's
going to drop for Nasdaq to go down to
that Weekly inefficiency by then leaving
this area up here smooth like that
because it doesn't have to go up there
and do that I just want it to do that
and then that would give me confidence
if it starts to break down then we can
take our attention over here for cell
side for ES and then more specifically
what we were looking for for
Nasdaq you down here
right there so while it's up here retail
Traders are not thinking anything down
here it's completely outside their radar
they're not they're not even thinking
about it they don't think it's it's even
possible they're looking for
continuation to the
upside a small little Gap
here um yes
now you've learned again something new
today I've taught this already it's on
core mentorship um on my YouTube channel
if you look at 2016
2017 private mentorship that's my paid
mentorship lectures and there are people
literally on Instagram on YouTube on
Twitter everywhere trying to sell those
same videos for for free they're on my
YouTube channel but they're trying to
sell them to you don't be a stupid ass
go to the YouTube channel and watch it
for
free but I taught
uh decoupling in the in the core content
lessons and the same thing with Forex so
if you're watching Forex or trading
Forex um if you're trading like euro
dollar or you're trading pound dollar if
you're bullish on pound
dollar you should see in a symmetrical
Market your dollar be bullish and dollar
be bearish that's a symmetrical Triad
like you you have to have three things
in Forex it's not just a one type thing
like can you trade profitably with just
watching one pair and nothing else yes
if you're a price action Trader but to
get a a full panoramic view of what
price is doing and how it should be
viewed as high probability or low
probability in Forex you want to have a
correlated pair positively correlated
meaning euro dollar is positively
correlated to euro dollar they usually
move in sympathy with one another that
one goes up the other one usually goes
up not all the time but generally they
do and if that's occurring if both are
moving up the dollar Index better be
moving down that's a symmetrical Market
there are instances where the pound
dollar going up euro dollar going down
and dollar sitting still and that's
going to be a Euro pound short because
it's it's a break let me make sure I
said that
right dollar sitting still pound dollar
going up euro dollar going down yeah
that's going to be a Euro pound
short if the dollar Index is
consolidating that means that your
crosses without the dollar in them
closely correlated pairs are going to be
paired together like to make across like
Euro
pound that will make them go up and the
dollar will just sit still so you know
in reality Forex is a lot more
complicated to teach than index Futures
and index Futures is a better Market to
trade because everybody has the same
price you don't get the same Tom fullery
with Brokers where they can give you a
different High a different low the
spread can widen and take your stop but
everybody else's uh broker firm didn't
get that same price so you're you're
asking to lose money there like you
you're asking to lose
money so in in Futures it's a lot a lot
more Level Playing Field and even though
there are some things like we have here
today
um you're learning the very things that
prevents me from showing you these
enormous lists of losing trades because
I can I can recognize these things and
it's the logic that repeats in the
lectures I've already given out in the
core content lessons on this YouTube
channel if you know how you're going to
lose
money if you can recognize the
conditions that's going to be more
difficult than it should
be doesn't it make sense for you not to
take trades yet and wait for the that
movement in your favor where it's
obvious so where it's at right now that
volume in balance that should be the end
of it if it's going to go up there it
should be done here and it should start
to move up if not it's going to break
below here and then we'll start seeing
the NASDAQ move in sympathy with
uh that of the Dow look at the Dow this
is staying down on its
lows so whenever you see um
this
decoupling every price
run if whether you're trading the es or
if you're trading the NASDAQ I guess for
the folks that are just nuts and want to
trade the 3030 if you want to trade this
in this Indy here the
Dow look what it's doing would you want
to trade this when the NASDAQ and the
S&P are going up so I'm kind of give you
the uh the the flipped perspective of it
say you are predominantly a dow Trader
would you want to be trading this indic
if it's doing this against the two
higher U composite indices which is the
NASDAQ which uses 100 stocks to make
that Composite Index and then you have
the S&P 500 which uses 500 individual
stocks to make up its composite so if
both of those are going higher and this
one's going down
lower what does that mean for you as a
dow
Trader it's still decoupled right so
they should be moving in agreement and
sympathy one another they all three
should be going up if they're bullish
and all three should be moving down when
they're bearish if there is ever a time
when that is not true like we see here
this morning that is a sit still and
wait you have plenty of time in the rest
of the day you have plenty of time you
still have the the pal speech later
today which is inviting this very event
here
decoupling a lot of people don't there's
not a lot of big money movement right
now they're just moving price
around after pal done talking 15 minutes
after that you're going to see very nice
clean price
action but are you willing to wait for
that most people
aren't okay let we overshot that volume
balance by little bit into a little Gap
here so are you watching any other live
besides
me are they complaining about the
ugliness of of the price action yet I'm
sitting here sipping some water smiling
thinking none of this is a
surprise I'm not
surprised Nate Diaz I ain't surprised
[__]
so like I said and it gets down to that
volume and balance uh that should have
been it we should have started to rotate
higher if it's going to go up for that
buy side that was the time for it to do
so so far it's it's indicating that it
could not that it will yet I'm more
interested in once we get there once we
get into this area here does it hold
does it stay there and go higher or does
it go there spend a little bit of time
which is reasonable and then start to
break down because that means that they
went out there to accumulate those buy
stops and now they've unseed did anyone
that was profitably
short and any movement lower they're on
board with the targets and things I've
outlined at the beginning of the
pre-market analysis so far there's
literally nothing in here that I would
be long on not one
thing not that there ain't setups there
there are but there would not be any of
them with my money behind
it and you'll get that and you'll
understand that when you can see setup
that
are on multiple time
frames multidirectional you can be a
buyer and seller in the same
day just because you can see them there
just because you anticipate them panning
out just because you can frame a stop
loss that's
reasonable if it goes against your
analysis and you're waiting for your
setup why would you be impulsive and try
to do something and prove that you're
not patient that you are
impulsive it goes against the entire
grain of what makes a profitable
consistently profitable traiter and the
mindset that they hold you have to have
a you have to have control over
yourself you have to have a a discipline
to stick to if you've done that work in
the analysis then wait for the setup to
come to you and everything else that's
going on outside of that should have
absolutely no effect on you you
shouldn't be losing your mind over it
you shouldn't be panicked about it you
shouldn't be I'm afraid it's going to go
other direction what if it Ries 250
points so what it's
Monday 250 points is nothing you
literally have to stop making every next
trade
decision the pentacle of your
career because when you when you do that
you're actually creating the exit ramp
for your career or at least for that
account you're probably going to blow it
because you're placing too much emphasis
on having to do something
I'm watching the bodies in here in
respect to this Gap in
here very very very content with the
sideline right
now the chop is
real he should make t-shirts man he
would make money on that he see me
making somehow
look at that that Gap I was telling you
there
boom and then let's go take a look at
the Dow real
quick pull up into its Gap right
there it's a little smooth I guess on
the upside is it they might want to pop
that with
es but you can you can see how much more
complicated this is a complex Market to
trade in this morning because you have
each IND indic doing its own
thing and it's real hard to frame low
risk in that
environment you can see what it's likely
to do but is it worth putting you m
putting your money behind
it not from I you're walking to do what
you want to do take your take your wins
and go on social media and get your
trophies and stuff but uh yeah not me
I'd rather sit here and prove that I
have discipline over myself that I'm
going to stick to the tools that I trade
and authored and I'm going to let the
setups come to me and if it runs without
me it's okay I'm good enough to know
that I'm going to be able to find a
setup in the afternoon I'm good enough
to know that I can trade that last hour
and make whatever I need to make in a
job in a month I can make that in in the
last hour trading that's the confidence
but that sounds like arrogance it sounds
like it's [__] because you all that
think that way can't do it so you think
nobody can and that's not
true and if you just stop thinking
critically like that and just try to
learn you can be able to do it too and
you'll think wow I used to troll you too
ICT but now look at this good
welcome all right so we're inside the
new week opening Gap here it's also
consequent encroachment of the opening
range Gap that's that that yellow box is
so in a perfect world it would want to
drive into this side
here this Gap as it was trading up into
that I was telling you watch that Gap
right
there and she was very
very useful there it's very close to the
high of that inbalance that's shaded in
purple or whatever shade that closest to
purple is here
now in that yellow box what can happen
and I would like to see happen is for it
to to drop down stay inside this red box
come back up and touch the bottom of the
yellow
box and if it leaves that volume in
Balance come back up and repic to that
volume of balance between this candle
here and here hit that and then rotate
lower but it may not do that may just
just take off R either way it's fine I
told you I want to see it go to here but
I'd like to see it use the opening range
Gap low that this yellow box represents
I don't want to see it deliver like that
though it needs to be a separate
candle in other words if the candle
would have been down here and stopped
and created a new candle and trade up to
it any type of return back to a premium
array you want to see it do that you
don't want to look at it on the same
Candlestick where it moves away from the
PD and comes back to it and same that
that's never what you want to see that's
never ever ever a point of entry for you
to use it like that it needs to create a
new Candlestick and trade up into
it then expect it to roll over this is
what you get by just reaching into these
little lows here back inside the opening
range so let's take a quick look at es
once
more this is the benefit of having
multiple screens by the way or dividing
your screen but I want to keep you know
one big chart on the screen as I
talk my eyes are a little bit uh
fatigued when I'm done doing these live
streams when we're doing two screens and
I'm
squinting I gotta I gotta protect my
eyes as much as I want to teach it I
still have to take care of my
eyes so imagine you're an es Trader how
you feeling right
now you feel confident are you are you
confident about your short are you
confident about your long are you conf
confident that you made the right
decision by sitting still are you
regretting that you did anything yet or
did you chop yourself up already because
the market didn't chop you up you
chopped yourself
up telling you man if I would have had
someone telling me where the market is
going to create these high resistance
liquidity runs how they were going to
create these conditions that were going
to be problematic to me trading I would
be uh would be grateful for that because
I would have been looking for instances
where um where I blew my accounts where
I hold on one
second e
sorry about that my wife just got
back the dogs are beating her but as I
was saying I would want to see
uh I want to see someone explain when I
was 20 years old how to avoid when the
Market's hard because I thought every
day was a trading opportunity and
I didn't think that there'd be times
where there's not all the advantages
that should be afforded to a Trader like
I thought that I just didn't know enough
and everything that's going on in the
price action was an opportunity for
someone to take a trade on and they they
could be profitable every day that
that's the belief I
had and I found out that I was losing a
lot because I didn't understand these
types of conditions where we have
decoupling and think about what you've
learned so far this year and just in the
last eight weeks you've learned how to
identify High resistance liquidity
profiles you've learned about Seek and
Destroy and how to anticipate them and
see what it looks like real time to
identify it you've seen an episode here
now with decoupling and how do we
anticipate decoupling whenever there's a
Fed chair speech
fomc those types of things cause
decoupling everything just unravels and
that's why you have to wait 15 minutes
after he's done talking this to allow
for things to try try to get back in
sync and they may not get in syn in the
first 15 minutes after he's done talking
you but you wait until they
do if you if you don't see that you sit
on your hands and you don't feel bad
about it you don't regret
it
yes it gives you a piece of mine look at
the es
that's oh that would make me
mad if I was in that man come on what
are you doing to
me and that stack is uh
back down outside of the opening range
Gap so same thing I was outlining here
I'd like to see it trade down in the
lower portion of that pink box create a
new candle without leaving or going
below this low here create a new
Candlestick come up and trade up
into the low and or the lower quadrant
of this yellow box because we went back
up and did what traded back into the new
week opening Gap repriced to the volume
and balance right in here between these
two candles bodies and here so the only
Market that's doing what
uh we would want to see happen in price
action is the NASDAQ you see that so the
Symmetry in the market as a whole is
broken but we are able to see Price
Cleaner on this one than we can see it
on the Dow and or the
es that's just as good coming up didn't
didn't quite get to it so by it not
trading back to the opening range Gap
low breaking down like this for the sell
side that's actually weak that's good
you want to see that but affording
yourself the opportunity to do this very
thing here that's that's
good
and see if we
can Rush down below these lows and
accelerate not just go below it and come
back up into the opening range Gap we
don't want to see that
knowing when to sit still that is an art
that you all should
Master because it's these days where
you're going to lose money and you won't
realize it until after the day ends and
you look at it you're like man I wish I
would have stopped trading right when I
felt like it was getting too hard it was
getting messy or you all call it
choppy now you're learning how to see it
real time so that way you can sit still
and behave don't act like a fool and get
out there and just try to do something
because you have time to be in front of
the
charts exercise and control over
yourself knowing what you're looking for
if it doesn't come to you don't do
anything don't anti anticipate the setup
and enter before the setup is there
anticipate the setup and when it comes
then pounce on it you're not reacting
you're anticipating it but if the
Market's presenting opportunities that
are far less likely because the Symmetry
is not there that means all three
indices are doing their independent
thing well that's never a market
environment where you should be using
high risk and or forcing I gotta get
into a
trade you don't need to feel that
way now again I don't want to see it
just go below these relative equal lows
I don't want to see it go down there a
little bit and then come right back up
into this yellow box that's not
something I want to
see
oops
four beautiful isn't it beautiful looks
like a
thumb
useless there's that Gap still in play
Let's see if they want to jump up there
and get that little area there somewhat
of a somewhat of a
breaker I I'm telling you you couldn't
you couldn't pay me extra to trade the D
it's just just a ugly indic I can't
stand
it I've made money with it but I've lost
more money trading down than either of
the three
indices because of this it just does
some squirrel stuff that I I just don't
like
it all right so NASDAQ should get some
movement lower so we're leaving there's
um three highs up there in es so that
bolsters the idea of if NASDAQ can get
down to where we were outlining this
morning they might be on boarding Longs
there then come up
higher later on not necessarily today
but you later on in the week they might
be Revisited
so not
bad um a key takeaway Caleb so far is we
were able to see that that that Gap
right there could be
used and we've been framing the idea
that we want to see nasda go down not go
up so we seen the market trade lower we
had a swing low in here that was pierced
there so you shift in Market structure
fair value Gap trades up into it
beautifully we were calling the fair
value gap before it traded up there so I
said watch it you'll see in the Stream
you'll be able to rewind it in fact you
probably still should be able to rewind
it now but you shouldn't be rewinding
anything while I'm talking because
you're going to lose some kind of
information that I'm talking about
live but then we delivered nicely off of
that and then we traded down to half of
the first presented Fair Val got which
which is this Candlestick here so in In
fairness it looks like
this and again this is why I don't draw
everything on the chart that I'm
referring to because look how much look
how much is already on the chart it it
makes it complicated if I do it this way
but I have to draw them so that way you
can see what my eye is keyed up on and
I'm looking at it and in in this
perspective but I don't need it to be on
the chart and I'll show you what I mean
by that this candlesticks
low and the down close candle here's
high that is this shaded area here okay
so
this I just might as well tuck it in
here too if we're
bearish which was what we've been
focusing on for NASDAQ today we're not
interested in being a buyer it can go up
and not have any interest for us I'm not
interested in it I want to see the the
selloff I want to see the short side of
it so if the first presented fair value
Gap here at 9:31 which is the earliest
it can form based on what I'm giving
Caleb as a model if I'm bearish and this
is the fair value Gap that we're going
to focus on how would this Candlestick
be used as an inversion fair value guy
now I'm saying it slowly and carefully
because I want to make sure that I
correct myself because I did something
incorrect last week in stream I I I said
something incorrectly and then because I
heard myself say it and I was live
streaming I kept going back to calling
it the same thing incorrectly and it was
based on me drawing on the chart and it
disorients me so when you're
bearish on the
market up Clos candles that make a fair
value gap which is a buy side and
balance sell side and efficiency is
going to be a bearish inversion fair
value
Gap so if we go down like we do here we
we went to consequent cro of that gap
which let me shade it with the little
horizontal thing thing in
there make it
bold so we've been bearish the market
used the fair bag up by outline before
it went into it trades lower trades down
into and away from see the orange shaded
area here this box we left it came back
up went right to consequent encroachment
to the tick straight to the
tick then it behaves as an inversion
fair value Gap lower if at any time
after it delivers on the basis like it's
done here it's reacted and left it and
took out a low that is already done
enough to afford it as a properly
classified inversion fair value G it
does not need to trade down the sell
side here does not need to go down to
the Target outline today it offered a
trade to take out the sell side that
would be resting right below that low
here from consequent encroachment to
that low that's a setup if we ever trade
back above and back into this Fair Val
Gap and come back down into it this
would be classified as a reclaimed
bullish fair value Gap because it's an
up closed candle that's how you classify
it I made the mistake of calling it an
inversion Gap last week when it wasn't
so it should have been called a
reclaimed bullish fair value got so I
made a mistake last week in live stream
and it's because I got disoriented by
drawing in the chart I know what I'm
looking for if you go back and listen to
what I was describing you'll hear me
describing what what I see price do with
that range and I just mislabeled it by
by the name but what I was expecting to
see price to do around it is what was
accurate but I I did make a mistake and
call it inversion fair value Gap when it
should have been reclaimed fair fair
value
G so again you know even in a sloppy dis
uh disjointed decoupled Market where the
es
is doing
this and the
Dow is doing that our Market we did a
pre-market analysis on and all the PD
arrays are delivering Fair bag Gap I
told you told you we were going to
consolidate around up in
here perfect I told you retail is going
to want it to go higher well what am I
doing I'm I'm wrestling retail with
smart money cont concept smart Money
traders are shorting up here
accumulating new positions then we have
a displacement lower at the fair value
Gap we were down here I told you watch
this fair value Gap here trades up into
it perfectly drops down first fair value
Gap here it's a buy side Bound sell sign
efficiency when we're bearish meaning
what it's going to be used as an
inversion fair value Gap once it trades
out of it comes back up consequent
encouragement you want to see the lower
half be used for entries and once we
leave it the upper half stay untouched
and that's exactly what you're seeing
here
and then the markets traded down into
sside theod
there so now we take this and we couple
it with this
low and we dim this
one it's on your charts still Caleb
it'll be in
the in the chart but just I'm not trying
to
draw too much emphasis on it now this is
for you to be able to have it in your
notes by screenshotting it only today's
stuff on tomorrow you got have to do
your own
charts okay so we're going to see this
expand down we don't want to see it come
back up into this inefficiency up here
it's in this box shaded area opening
range
Gap we're going to take that out for now
you can see the inversion Fair Gap there
and we want to see speed here
aggressively run down and take that cell
side we don't want to see them the other
pool that
orders you don't need level two data for
that
stuff you don't need bookmap you don't
need
uh anything else you just got to just
look at where where where's
price if you were long from anywhere in
here and or you you went long up here
but your stop loss is below here how
confident would you be that you're in a
good position to still be in the trade
or that you think this is still a
bullish Market these are all questions
that I think about when I'm watching
price when it starts to move towards an
old low or an old high I try to put
myself in a position of who was in this
trade right now who
was getting long or maybe would have
regretted being long and maybe they look
this and say hey this is a good time to
buy I missed this opportunity but now
they're presenting this so is that
something that they would be want to buy
into that I don't
know yes
every single time l
we're almost in that fair bag
G this one's so dirty it's uh it's
probably going to want to un unsettle
this these highs up
here so that's that's more like where I
would expect them to take the Dow
because Dow just broke lower rate from
the opening
challenging market today for folks out
there that aren't looking at the things
I'm teaching
you that's an invitation to show me your
trades by the way for the folks that
like to troll me show me your ellot wave
Today Show Me Your show me your
knickknacks your Patty wax give a dog a
bone
n what are characteristics of high
resistance liquidity run
profiles deeper retracements since you
than you want to see targets get traded
to later than you want to see them
traded
to smaller inefficiency there three up
close
candles change and state deliveries that
opening price
there that would be like the last line
the sand for me I I wouldn't want to
have anything
else go higher than that like I said I I
want to see them come back to that first
presented fair value gy to do that is
problematic for being short in the first
hour trading and we are basically
technically ending that in 15 seconds
so time together so in quick summary
I'll try to do this in one
minute we looked at how the market
presented reasons why I believe that we
still could very well be down
here I think that that will still be a
factor for this week uh they left this
sell side in place uh they went back
inside of the new week opening gap which
are these two purple Dash lines in here
and we're back inside of the first
restive fair value Gap Caleb you would
not use this as your short
here yes there again no what is it doing
it's returning back to your point of
interest if it's going back there twice
it's not as good as you want it to be
and you want it to react the first time
you get into it and then displace lower
it did go to our cell side it got close
to the next one here but then said no
I'm not going there and started pulling
back up and I told you I did not want to
see it return back to the first percent
of fair value got I didn't want to see
it go back to the low of this in B here
so because if it's going to go here it's
going to go back to the first per fair
value Gap and or inside what new wiek
opening Gap so if it's going back there
that's fine it's going to do so without
you so your trade would be entering here
at consequent encroachment of your first
percent of fair value Gap that's going
to be
inversion also keying up on the new week
opening Gap laying over top of that and
your target would be these relative
equal lows you take a large por off if
you were inclined to have more than one
you don't have more than one contract
now but in your notes you're going to
say this would be first partial or
majority of your tradeoff why because
you're in a decoupled
market and then your next Target would
be here which did not pan out so you'd
be stopped out going back into the first
perent FA value
got so you're only going to be able to
annotate with the basis of this being
your profit
taken and you watch this as much as this
deliver but that next level didn't give
it to you and it went back to what you
heard dad say I don't want to see it
come back and touch this inefficiencies
low here or the first per of your value
Gap again I don't I don't want to see
that to do that doesn't afford you
enough time to trade in that first one
hour trading so you have to stick to the
rules even if this does roll over you
have to have roll Sun you have to have a
basis to stick within and say this is
the guidelines I'm staying inside of If
I Stay inside these guidelines you've
already seen enough to know that we have
rules that tell us when we can avoid
very difficult market
conditions and by having that we are
already ahead of everybody else out
there we already are light years ahead
of everybody else out there everybody
else is out there trying to push the
button you're going to wait when it's
easy and you can see it with the rules
I'm teaching that it's easy if it's
complicated if it fits any of the criter
here that I've taught you so far about
Seek and
Destroy Market is in high resistance uh
liquidity run profile and now we have
decoupling today so you can recognize
you can recognize the adversities so
that way you have much more experience
by understanding these profiles and how
the Market's book and price than if you
just would have spend 10 years of retail
stuff because retail won't teach you
this stuff it ain't going to teach you
this no one's teaching this kind of
stuff they're teaching you how to get
into trades I'm teaching you how to
avoid when trading in these conditions
are less likely to pan out in your favor
that's the key takeaway today okay so
for everyone else listening I hope that
you found something insightful in this I
hope you learned something of value um
we will be back at it again tomorrow I
believe that we will be
um I'll probably be doing a a 7:00 start
time tomorrow um and I think that might
be the rest of the week's uh schedule as
well they I promise this this is the
only week that we're going to do it like
that but I want to teach pre-market more
in depth but today I'm satisfied with
what I taught I'm satisfied with how the
market has delivered and I believe that
if anyone has a a serious mindset about
learning uh there's huge value in what
was shown today because I could have
used this and spared myself dozens of
blown accounts in the 90s I would have
literally kept myself out of the very
instances where I hurt myself and lost
the entire account it were it was in
these days I would look at the market I
would see that these things were
occurring but I never saw it as valuable
information or Intel I just look it as
okay well I'm in the right Market I'm in
the the the index or the commodity or
the currency future that I took a trade
on so I have to stick with it I know I
have all these other things that's
scaring me right now but I'm not I'm not
going to identify that as a reason to
get out just be content with whatever I
have I held on to it and I arm wrestled
the market and it took it from me it
took the profit I had unrealized and it
took the entire account because I wanted
the arm wrestle it so you don't have to
do those things son that's not going to
be impressed if you go through the same
kind of pain that I went through that's
not that's not what this is about it's
for you to do it better than me to do it
faster than it took me to do it because
I wrestled through all this stuff you're
getting blessed I feel like the Lord's
laying these things out perfectly so
that way you get these lessons in the
beginning and that way you can have this
understanding right from Jump Street and
have it in your mind knowing that there
are days when I don't have to trade and
it could still move around with a rhyme
and reason that I can still see but
doesn't mean I need to go in there and
risk real money and then when you don't
have these types of conditions because
there really isn't anything else now
there is no other reason to stay out of
the marketplace we've already all three
bases High Resistance liquidity profiles
they're tradable but you have to handle
them differently with a wider stop and
hold on to that stop near your
entry Seek and Destroy you can't trade
it and then decoupled markets you can
trade them but you're probably not going
to get your your targets you're going to
have similar things like a high
resistance liquidity run profile where
it's a lot of give and take but it'll
eventually get to where you want it to
go but are you going to be good enough
to pick the NASDAQ over the
es I don't think you will so to keep
that from ever being an issue I told you
to stay with just the
NASDAQ so I'm I'm filtering all these
scenarios because I've taught lots of
people all around the world and for 25
years I've been teaching I have picked
up on how they make the same mistakes so
by forcing you to just use one
instrument it removes the tenden
or the opportunity for you to be tricked
by feeling like you you picked the right
one so therefore stay with your trade no
you have to you have to look at all
three averages and if they don't agree
they're not moving the same way they're
decoupled if they're decoupled you're
not going to get a perfect price run
like you would want in a low resistance
liquidity run profile we don't have that
here but because you've seen all three
of the things that cause difficult
trading not impossible trading difficult
trading anything that doesn't fit the
criteria that you've seen in those three
different
profiles is easy easy easy trading they
run right to your targets your entries
are perfect and pristine your stops are
easy to place in low risk and it's just
Pleasant to trade in those environments
and if I can teach you to focus on that
and anyone else that's listening if you
learn to identify those conditions when
it's low resistance liquidity run
profiles your trading will be enjoyable
it will not be stressful it'll seem like
it's effortless and while there's still
inherent risk with that and and you'll
still get stopped out once in a while
you're going to find that the market
quickly wants to go to where you think
it's going to go and where your targets
are resting that's fun that is what
encourages continuous uh adherence to
good sound Ming management and logic
behind the St setups so with that wish
you all a very good pleasant day and I
will touch base with you I'm sure with
some kind of a review video video and uh
until then Lord will I'll see you
tomorrow be safe